[docs] add eas update bandwidth guide (#34817)
expo/expo: docs/pages/eas-update/estimate-bandwidth.mdx

---
title: Estimate bandwidth usage
description: Learn how to estimate bandwidth usage with EAS Update.
---

> # Understanding Update Bandwidth Usage

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Understanding update bandwidth usage
```
And so on

EAS Update enables an app to update its own non-native pieces (such as JS, styling, and images) over-the-air. This guide explains how bandwidth is consumed and optimized.

## Bandwidth Calculation Breakdown

> Each billing cycle includes a predefined bandwidth allocation, which translates to a specific number of updates your users can download. Here's how we estimate bandwidth usage:

Reviewer: Each subscription plan includes bandwidth per cycle, the cycles themselves don't include bandwidth.

> - **Update Size:** The key factor in bandwidth consumption is the size of each update. For example, if an update modifies only the JavaScript portion of your app and is **10 MB uncompressed**, we can further optimize this with compression.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Update Size:** The key factor in bandwidth consumption is the size of each update's assets not already present on device. For example, if an update modifies only the JavaScript portion of your app, when the user fetches your update it will download only the new JavaScript. The begin an example, let's say the JavaScript portion is **10 MB uncompressed**.
```

> - **Compression Ratio:** Hermes bytecode, commonly used in React Native apps, achieves an estimated **2.6× compression ratio**. This means the actual downloaded update size is approximately:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Compression Ratio:** Update assets can be compressed depending on their content type. JavaScript and Hermes bytecode (commonly used in React Native apps) can be compressed while images and icons are not automatically compressed. Continuing the example from above, our Hermes bytecode bundle achieves an estimated **2.6× compression ratio**. This means the actual downloaded update size is approximately:
```

  ```text
  10 MB / 2.6 ≈ 3.85 MB per update
  ```

> - **Total Downloads:** Given a bandwidth allocation, we estimate how many users can download an update. For example, if your plan includes **1 TiB (1,024 GiB) of bandwidth per billing cycle**, the number of updates that can be downloaded is:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Total Downloads:** Given a bandwidth allocation, we estimate how many users can download an update. For example, if your plan includes **1 TiB (1,024 GiB) of bandwidth per billing cycle**, the number of updates covered by this allocation is:
```

(You can still download more, it's just not included)

  ```text

>   (1,024 GiB × 1,024 MiB) / 3.85 MiB ≈ 272,935 updates

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  (1,024 GiB × 1,024 MiB/GiB) / 3.85 MiB ≈ 272,935 updates
```

  ```

## Measuring Your Actual Update Size

> To determine the actual compressed size of your Hermes bundle, run the following command:
> 
> ```sh
> gzip -9 -k bundle.hbc
> ls -lh bundle.hbc.gz
> ```
> 
> This will generate a **gzip-compressed** version of your Hermes bundle (`bundle.hbc.gz`) and display its size. You can use this to refine bandwidth calculations based on your app’s real-world update sizes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To determine the actual compressed size of your Hermes bundle, run the following commands:

```sh
brotli -5 -k bundle.hbc
gzip -9 -k bundle.hbc
ls -lh bundle.hbc.br bundle.hbc.gz
```

This will generate **Brotli-** and **Gzip-compressed** versions of your Hermes bundle (`bundle.hbc.br` and `bundle.hbc.gz`) and display their sizes. You can use this to refine bandwidth calculations based on your app’s real-world update sizes.
```

## Factors That Affect Bandwidth Consumption

Actual bandwidth usage varies due to:

> - **User Behavior:** While theoretical calculations assume every user downloads every update, many users only receive updates when reopening the app, meaning they may skip intermediate updates.

Reviewer: The current wording makes it sound like the actual usage will be close to the theoretical max. I would reword this whole section.

> - **Missing Assets:** Any assets not included in the embedded build but required in the update (e.g., fonts, images, or other dependencies) will need to be downloaded as well, increasing bandwidth usage.

Reviewer: Embedded build doesn't make sense. This sounds like something GPT would say.

## Best Practices to Optimize Bandwidth Usage

> 1. **Minimize Update Size:** Avoid bundling unnecessary assets in updates.

Reviewer: Link to the doc about asset exclusion

> 2. **Monitor Usage:** Check your bandwidth metrics to detect unusual spikes or inefficiencies.

Reviewer: Link to the usage page.

---
title: Estimate bandwidth usage

> description: Learn how to estimate bandwidth usage with EAS Update.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
description: Learn how to estimate bandwidth usage for EAS Update.
```

---

# Understanding update bandwidth usage

> EAS Update enables an app to update its own non-native pieces (such as JS, styling, and images) over-the-air. This guide explains how bandwidth is consumed and optimized.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
EAS Update enables an app to update its own non-native pieces (such as JS, styling, and images) over-the-air. This guide explains how bandwidth is consumed and how consumption can be optimized.
```

## Bandwidth calculation breakdown

> Each subscription plan includes a predefined bandwidth allocation per billing cycle, which translates to a specific number of updates your users can download. Here's how we estimate bandwidth usage:

Reviewer 2: Each plan also includes an additional amount of bandwidth per MAU I think. From the pricing page:

> 1 TiB of global edge bandwidth included. For every additional MAU over 50,000 MAUs, 40 MiB of bandwidth is added to your bandwidth quota. After that, you'll be charged $0.10 per GiB.

So maybe this should be worded like:

```suggestion
Each subscription plan includes a predefined bandwidth allocation per billing cycle plus 40 MiB per MAU for non-on-demand plans. Here's how to estimate bandwidth usage per update:
```

> - **Update size:** The key factor in bandwidth consumption is the size of update assets that are not already on the device. If an update only modifies the JavaScript portion of your app, users will only download the new Javascript. To begin an example, if the uncompressed Javascript portion is **10 MB**, compression can further reduce its size.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Update size:** The key factor in bandwidth consumption is the size of update assets that are not already on the device. If an update only modifies the JavaScript portion of your app, users will only download the new Javascript. To begin an example, let's say the uncompressed Javascript portion generated during export is **10 MB**. Compression will further reduce its size.
```

- **Compression ratio:** The level of compression depends on the file type. JavaScript and Hermes bytecode (commonly used in React Native apps) can be compressed, while images and icons are not automatically compressed. In the example above, a Hermes bytecode bundle achieves an estimated **2.6× compression ratio**, reducing the actual download size to:

  ```text

>   10 MB / 2.6 ≈ 3.85 MB per update

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  10 MB / 2.6 ≈ 3.85 MB update bandwidth size
```

  ```

> - **Total Downloads:** Given a bandwidth allocation, we estimate how many users can download an update. For example, if your plan includes **1 TiB (1,024 GiB) of bandwidth per billing cycle**, the number of updates covered by this allocation is:
> 
>   ```text
>   (1,024 GiB × 1,024 MiB/GiB) / 3.85 MiB ≈ 272,935 updates

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Total update bandwidth:** Given the resulting update bandwidth size and your expected number of users downloading the update, we can estimate the total bandwidth for the update across all your users. Let's say you have 300,000 MAU:

  ```text
  3.85 MiB * 300,000 MAU ≈ 1.10 TiB of total bandwidth
```

  ```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
** Total charged overage bandwidth: ** Given the total bandwidth for an update, we can calculate whether an update will cause overage charges. Each subscription plan has an allocated fixed amount of bandwidth plus 40 MiB per MAU. So the total included bandwidth allotment per billing cycle for the above example on the production plan is:

// text block
1 TiB + 300000 * 40 MiB ≈ 12.44 TiB total included bandwidth per billing cycle
// end text block

Overage is charged at $0.10 per GiB.

So, continuing the example above, let's say I push out 20 updates per billing cycle. That means I will use roughly the following :

// text block
20 * 1.10 TiB = 22 TiB per billing cycle

22 TiB - 12.44 TiB = 9789.44 GiB
9789.44 GiB * $0.10 = $978.94 overage charge per billing cycle
// end text block

```

Author: I amended the section to include how the calculation would look like with 60,000 MAU (base bandwidth for 50k MAU + 40 MB/MAU for 10k). We added overage rates mostly to prevent abuse, and in practice so few people actually encounter this scenario. So I'd rather leave it off.

## Measuring your actual update size

To determine the actual compressed size of your Hermes bundle, run the following commands:

```sh
brotli -5 -k bundle.hbc
gzip -9 -k bundle.hbc
ls -lh bundle.hbc.br bundle.hbc.gz
```

This will generate **Brotli- and Gzip-compressed** versions of your Hermes bundle (bundle.hbc.br and bundle.hbc.gz) and display their sizes. You can use this to refine bandwidth calculations based on your app’s real-world update sizes.

## Factors that affect bandwidth consumption

Actual bandwidth usage varies due to:

- **User behavior:** Theoretical calculations assume every user downloads every update. However, many users only get updates when they reopen the app, often skipping intermediate updates. As a result, actual bandwidth usage is usually much lower than the theoretical maximum.

> - **Missing assets:** If an update includes assets such as fonts and images that are not already on the device, they will need to be downloaded as well.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Missing assets:** If an update includes assets such as fonts and images that are not already on the device from the build or previously-downloaded updates, they will need to be downloaded as well.
```

---
title: Estimate bandwidth usage
description: Learn how to estimate bandwidth usage for EAS Update.
---

# Understanding update bandwidth usage

EAS Update enables an app to update its own non-native pieces (such as JS, styling, and images) over-the-air. This guide explains how bandwidth is consumed and how consumption can be optimized.

## Bandwidth calculation breakdown

> Each subscription plan includes a predefined bandwidth allocation per month. Additionally, extra MAUs purchased through usage-based pricing receives an additional 40 MiB of bandwidth per MAU. This bandwidth determines the number of updates your users can download. Here's how to estimate bandwidth usage per update:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Each subscription plan includes a predefined bandwidth allocation per monthly billing period in addition to its monthly active user (MAU) allocation ([Learn more about how MAU are calculated](https://docs.expo.dev/eas-update/faq/#how-are-monthly-updated-users-counted-for-a-billing-cycle)). MAU's beyond the standard allocation are billed at [usage-based pricing rates](https://expo.dev/pricing#update), and each of those additional MAU add an extra 40 MiB to your standard bandwidth allocation. This bandwidth determines the number of updates your users can download before being charged for additional bandwidth usage. 

Here's how to estimate bandwidth usage per update:
```

- **Update size:** The key factor in bandwidth consumption is the size of update assets that are not already on the device. If an update only modifies the JavaScript portion of your app, users will only download the new Javascript. To begin an example, let's say the uncompressed Javascript portion generated during export is **10 MB**. Compression will further reduce its size.
- **Compression ratio:** The level of compression depends on the file type. JavaScript and Hermes bytecode (commonly used in React Native apps) can be compressed, while images and icons are not automatically compressed. In the example above, a Hermes bytecode bundle achieves an estimated **2.6× compression ratio**, reducing the actual download size to:

  ```text
  10 MB / 2.6 ≈ 3.85 MB update bandwidth size
  ```

> - **Total update bandwidth:** Given a bandwidth allocation, we estimate how many updates can be downloaded. For example, if you have 60,000 MAUs on a production plan, it includes 50,0000 MAU and **1 TiB (1,024 GiB) of bandwidth per month**. An additional 10,000 MAUs purchased through usage-based pricing receives an additional **40 MiB of bandwidth per MAU**. The total number of updates that can be downloaded is:

Reviewer 3: The first two bullets make sense under "Here's how to estimate bandwidth usage per update", but the third bullet seems like less of "how" and more of an example of applying the "how", so I would consider breaking it out of the bullet points.

> - **Total update bandwidth:** Given a bandwidth allocation, we estimate how many updates can be downloaded. For example, if you have 60,000 MAUs on a production plan, it includes 50,0000 MAU and **1 TiB (1,024 GiB) of bandwidth per month**. An additional 10,000 MAUs purchased through usage-based pricing receives an additional **40 MiB of bandwidth per MAU**. The total number of updates that can be downloaded is:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Total update bandwidth:** Given a bandwidth allocation, we estimate how many updates can be downloaded in a monthly billing period before additional bandwidth charges apply. For example, if you have 60,000 MAUs on a production plan, it includes 50,0000 MAU and **1 TiB (1,024 GiB) of bandwidth per month**. An additional 10,000 MAUs purchased through usage-based pricing receives an additional **40 MiB of bandwidth per MAU**. The total number of updates that can be downloaded is:
```

  ```text

>   (1,024 GiB × 1,024 MiB/GiB) + (10,000 MAU × 40 MiB/MAU) = 1,448,576 MiB per month

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  (1,024 GiB × 1,024 MiB/GiB) + (10,000 MAU × 40 MiB/MAU) = 1,448,576 MiB per month
```

Actual bandwidth usage varies due to:

- **User behavior:** Theoretical calculations assume every user downloads every update. However, many users only get updates when they reopen the app, often skipping intermediate updates. As a result, actual bandwidth usage is usually much lower than the theoretical maximum.

> - **Missing assets:** If an update includes assets such as fonts and images that are not already on the device from the build or previously-downloaded updates, they will need to be downloaded as well.

Reviewer: Remove hyphenation

```suggestion
- **Missing assets:** If an update includes assets such as fonts and images that are not already on the device from the build or previously downloaded updates, they will need to be downloaded as well.
```
